## Could extraterrestrial life be so advanced as to not be recognized by humans?
    
**Upvotes**: 31 | **Comments**: 3 | **Date**: [3y](https://www.quora.com/Could-extraterrestrial-life-be-so-advanced-as-to-not-be-recognized-by-humans/answer/Gary-Meaney)

Alien life could certainly take extremely exotic forms unlike anything on Earth, in my opinion. Some random speculations I’ve heard from imaginative - but scientifically informed - people, combined with elaboration from myself:

*   Completely solid life - that is, life forms with no liquid solvent in their biochemistry. Chemicals can actually be diffused through solids, it just takes really long. Therefore, solid organisms would probably have very slow rhythms, though they are possibly plausible.
*   Liquid life \- in a porous solid environment such as pumice stone, then living globs of liquid could probably move by capillarity, altering density to control movement. Even in another liquid though, surface tension could be utilized to maintain the organism’s shape. In fact, it’s thought that bubbles of lipids were the early precursors of cells.
*   Gaseous life - okay, now this is a bit far-fetched. The main catch here is that gases will disperse, making it difficult for the molecules to interact. I dunno, perhaps solid grains could help keep the molecules together and allow reactions. I’d be surprised if gaseous life exists, but I’d still consider it a possibility.
*   Living crystals - interestingly enough, there are potassium hydrogen pthalate crystals which can transmit information through generations - the “daughter crystal” inherits the cuts inflicted on the mother crystal. Eerily evocative of reproduction, eh? Such crystals might be able to take in atoms from the ground and energy from sunlight to metabolize.
*   Plasma life - computer simulations show that, provided they are accurate, plasma can self-organize itself into double-helixes and reproduce by splitting into two copies, and they even mutate slightly. A plasma organism could maybe even live in interstellar space, because of its electrical properties.

Now, conservative scientists turn back - this is where people’s speculations get really, really absurd. Here are a few I’ve heard regarding life using different fundamental forces to live.

*   Electromagnetic life - all chemistry is technically caused by electromagnetic interactions, including the physiologies of living things. Even true electric and magnetic phenomena are known from life - electroception and electrical synapses, for example. Fred Hoyle’s 1957 novel The Black Cloud describes a vacuum-living organism which performs biological functions by manipulating charged particles with magnetic fields.
*   Nuclear life \- perhaps hadron particles could take the place of atoms and molecules, but millions of times smaller - on such a scale, it would be possible for hypothetical nuclear organisms to store energy by converting it into mass, and then destroying that mass to release it.
*   Gravitational life - the thing with gravity is that it’s based on mass, which cannot be negative - therefore, it can only attract and not repel. Gravitational organisms would have to be extremely large and have very slow processes. On the bright side, it would have very efficient energy conversion - simply getting energy from the gravitational fields of stars and planets.

Lastly, I’d like to mention a few possibilities that are slightly less alien and mind-boggling. Here’s a few speculate energy sources which could even be used by familiar life:

*   Kinetic energy \- I saw one musing on the Internet that alien life could have piezoelectric crystals in its cells which convert kinetic energy into ATP. This kind of life would have to have one part of its body in constant motion, and could feed off a variety of sources - namely wind, rain, tides, pure stress and possibly even sound (the inner ear can convert sound waves into electrical signals, so it’s not impossible)
*   Heat - this could be a simple, and almost certainly plausible, method of autotrophy for aliens. The organism would sit at the boundary between a very cold and very hot area, such as a hydrothermal vent or the boundary of an atmosphere and derive its energy from the flux of heat to the colder zone. It probably wouldn’t be the most efficient source of energy, but it’s easy to exploit.
*   Osmotic gradient - osmotic gradient refers to the difference in salt concentration between layers of liquid. Perhaps if an ocean had a seafloor ejecting minerals upwards and a surface diluted by ice, there could be autotrophs which used the bottom of a cell or sac to expel water, drawing in ions, and then sucking in water through the less tonic top to expel ions. The resultant motion could be used to power chemical reactions.
*   Electricity - I could imagine an “electrotrophic” plant which worked like a photovoltaic cell, losing electrons when hit by photons, thus creating a current. There are even animals, such as Oriental hornets, which metabolize sunlight and then convert it into electrical energy, using the latter. There’s also the possibility of a process similar to the the previous one - with ions flowing through a membrane towards where they are less concentrated.
*   Magnetic fields - a phenomenon called Lorentz force works so that when an area containing charged particles, i.e. ions, is subjected to an external magnetic field, the electrical charges are moved in a specific direction, creating a current. This could work on the inner moons of gas giants, which have extraordinarily strong magnetic fields.
*   Radiation - believe it or not, there are Earth organisms which use radiation as an energy source, though the process is poorly understood. Black moulds growing in the Chernobyl power plant use their dark pigment to absorb the abundant gamma rays, which excite the melanin atoms and free electrons, which are in turn used to produce energy. Again, we know very little about this process, since Chernobyl isn’t exactly the ideal environment to perform such science.

Okay, now that’s enough mind-bending theoretical science for today. When we find extraterrestrial life, the chances are it won’t be too far removed from Earthly microbes, but still - I can only find obstacles, not dead ends, for even the most absurd of these speculations, so it’s nice knowing that somewhere in the universe, there might be living liquid blobs, gravitational organisms and sentient plasma clouds drifting through interstellar space.

